docs/guide/src/docs/asciidoc/index.adoc, before:

= Build-Info Gradle Plugin

- https://github.com/sdelamo/build-info-gradle-plugin[Code Repository]
- https://github.com/sdelamo/build-info-gradle-plugin/releases[Releases]
- https://bintray.com/beta/#/groovycalamari/maven/build-info-gradle-plugin[Artifacts]
- https://sdelamo.github.io/build-info-gradle-plugin/groovydoc/index.html[Groovy Docs]

== Installation

Check the installation instructions in the https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/groovycalamari.build-info[Gradle Plugin Portal].

== Description

If a META-INF/build-info.properties file is available on the classpath, https://micronaut.io[Micronaut framework]'s https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/api/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/info/source/BuildInfoSource.html[BuildInfoSource] exposes the values in that file under the `build` key.

This Gradle plugin adds a task `generateBuildInfo` which is executed before the `classes` task. The task generates a `build-info.properties` file at `build/classes/java/META-INFO/build-info.properties`. The generated properties file includes `version`, `name`, `group` and optionally `buildid`. `buildid` is set to value of any of the following environment variables (https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables/#default-environment-variables[TRAVIS_BUILD_ID], `GITHUB_RUN_ID`, `CODEBUILD_BUILD_ID`).

== How to use it

=== Micronaut Example

[source, bash]
----
% mn create-app example.micronaut.demo --features=management
----

Expose info endpoint:

[source, yaml]
----
---
endpoints:
  info:
    enabled: true
    sensitive: false
----

apply the plugin:

[source, groovy]
----
plugins {
  ...
  id "groovycalamari.build-info" version "0.0.2"
}
----

Then, run the app and hit the `/info` endpoint:

[source, bash]
----
% ./gradlew run
% curl localhost:8080/info
{"name":"demo","version":"0.1","group":"com.example"}
----

== Extension

You can override the defaults values with the extension `buildInfo`

[cols="2*"]
|===
| **property**
| **default value**
| output
| `build/classes/java/main/META-INF/build-info.properties`
| buildIdKey
| `buildid`
| versionKey
| `version`
| nameKey
| `name`
| groupKey
| `group`
|===

Example:

[source, groovy]
----
buildInfo {
    output = "${project.buildDir}/classes/java/main/META-INF/build-info.properties"
    buildIdKey = 'buildid'
    versionKey = 'version'
    nameKey = 'name'
    groupKey = 'group'
}
----

== Project Build

This library uses https://gradle.org[Gradle]. It uses the plugins:

- https://kordamp.org/kordamp-gradle-plugins/[Kordamp Gradle Plugins]
- https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/com.gradle.build-scan[Gradle Build Scan Plugins]
- https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/com.gradle.plugin-publish[Gradle Publish Plugin]

Commit message:

Adds optional commitsha to documentation.

docs/guide/src/docs/asciidoc/index.adoc, after:

= Build-Info Gradle Plugin

- https://github.com/sdelamo/build-info-gradle-plugin[Code Repository]
- https://github.com/sdelamo/build-info-gradle-plugin/releases[Releases]
- https://bintray.com/beta/#/groovycalamari/maven/build-info-gradle-plugin[Artifacts]
- https://sdelamo.github.io/build-info-gradle-plugin/groovydoc/index.html[Groovy Docs]

== Installation

Check the installation instructions in the https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/groovycalamari.build-info[Gradle Plugin Portal].

== Description

If a META-INF/build-info.properties file is available on the classpath, https://micronaut.io[Micronaut framework]'s https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/api/io/micronaut/management/endpoint/info/source/BuildInfoSource.html[BuildInfoSource] exposes the values in that file under the `build` key.

This Gradle plugin adds a task `generateBuildInfo` which is executed before the `classes` task. The task generates a `build-info.properties` file at `build/classes/java/META-INFO/build-info.properties`. The generated properties file includes `version`, `name`, `group` and optionally `buildid` and `commitsha`. `buildid` is set to value of any of the following environment variables (https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables/#default-environment-variables[TRAVIS_BUILD_ID], `GITHUB_RUN_ID`, `CODEBUILD_BUILD_ID`, `BUILD_ID`).

== How to use it

=== Micronaut Example

[source, bash]
----
% mn create-app example.micronaut.demo --features=management
----

Expose info endpoint:

[source, yaml]
----
---
endpoints:
  info:
    enabled: true
    sensitive: false
----

apply the plugin:

[source, groovy]
----
plugins {
  ...
  id "groovycalamari.build-info" version "0.0.3"
}
----

Then, run the app and hit the `/info` endpoint:

[source, bash]
----
% ./gradlew run
% curl localhost:8080/info
{"name":"demo","version":"0.1","group":"com.example"}
----

== Extension

You can override the defaults values with the extension `buildInfo`

[cols="2*"]
|===
| **property**
| **default value**
| output
| `build/classes/java/main/META-INF/build-info.properties`
| buildIdKey
| `buildid`
| versionKey
| `version`
| nameKey
| `name`
| groupKey
| `group`
| commitShaKey
| `commitsha`
|===

Example:

[source, groovy]
----
buildInfo {
    output = "${project.buildDir}/classes/java/main/META-INF/build-info.properties"
    buildIdKey = 'buildid'
    versionKey = 'version'
    nameKey = 'name'
    groupKey = 'group'
    commitShaKey = 'commitsha'
}
----

== Project Build

This library uses https://gradle.org[Gradle]. It uses the plugins:

- https://kordamp.org/kordamp-gradle-plugins/[Kordamp Gradle Plugins]
- https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/com.gradle.build-scan[Gradle Build Scan Plugins]
- https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/com.gradle.plugin-publish[Gradle Publish Plugin]
